README.markdown, before:

# Foursquare WordPress Theme

*Please note this is in beta release and is still baking. More updates to come.*

This is a WordPress theme built by The Foursquare Church for local Foursquare churches to provide them with an out-of-the-box solution for creating a website. 

Special hat tip to the team at Twitter for creating [Bootstrap](http://twitter.github.com/bootstrap), a framework this theme relies on for its functionality. 

Demo: http://foursquare.bethouawesome.com

## Installation & Basic Setup

This theme requires WordPress 3.0 or above. If you're new to WordPress it's pretty awesome, but does require little technical know-how. [Visit the WordPress website](http://codex.wordpress.org/Installing_WordPress) for instructions on how to get it up and running.

This repository includes all the theme files necessary to hit the ground running. To install, simply download the latest release and upload the ZIP file directly to your /wp-content/themes folder and select the theme from your WordPress dashboard (under Appearance > Themes). 

## Features

### Responsive design
This theme is completely responsive, using a wide range of resolutions to ensure your site is optimized for most devices, from mobile to desktop.

### Sermon management
Create sermon posts, group them into series and include related media like video, audio and notes.

### Staff profiles
Give everyone on your staff a personal profile page with contact details, including links to their social networks.

### Service times
List all your church services for easy display on the homepage.

### Bible references
This theme integrates Logos Bible Software's database of scripture, meaning any verse mentioned in a page or post will automatically include a tooltip of the full text with a link to the full version for easy citations. 

### Homepage slider
Spotlight anything on the homepage with an unlimited number of slides.

### Custom backgrounds
Choose from several textures to give your design a little extra oomph.

### Columns
Give any page a custom layout with these simple [shortcodes](http://codex.wordpress.org/Shortcode) that allow you to divide your content into as many as six columns.

### PayPal integration
Use a simple shortcode to insert a donate button anywhere on the site.

### Shortcodes galore
Add buttons, tables, alerts, YouTube clips and Google Maps using this incredibly handy snippets of re-useable code.

### Twitter integration
Display a list of your latest tweets to the sidebar of any page just by adding your Twitter handle.

### Prepackaged Plugins
Includes popular plugins Contact Form 7 and Events Manager for easy contact forms and calendar management, respectively. 

### Built on LESS
Pure vanilla CSS is nice, but if you're into preprocessors, we've packaged in [all the LESS files](http://lesscss.org/) with included variables, nesting, operations and mixins to make your development a little faster and more fun. 

## Installation & Basic Setup

Clone the git repo - `git@github.com:foursquarechurch/Foursquare-WordPress-Theme.git` - or [download the latest release](http://www.foursquare.org/wptheme).

This theme requires WordPress 3.0 or above. [Visit the WordPress website](http://codex.wordpress.org/Installing_WordPress) for instructions on how to run WordPress if you are just getting started.

This repository includes all the theme files necessary to hit the ground running, assuming you are already set up on WordPress. To install, simply download the latest release and upload the ZIP file directly to your /wp-content/themes folder and select the theme from your WordPress dashboard (under Appearance > Themes). 

Please note that this theme relies on a few plugins for certain features to work properly and comes bundled with the files you need. You will be prompted to activate the plugins once the theme has been activated.

## Customizing the Appearance

This theme allows you to adjust the design and choose from several settings to tailor it to your needs. Log into your WordPress dashboard to customize your settings.

Yes, it's true that this theme looks pretty awesome out of the box, but there are a few things you will want to customize to meet your needs.

### Foursquare Theme Options  
Navigate to this tab to customize the following settings:

* Background (choose from a variety of different textures)
* Google Map (the map that is displayed on the homepage)
* Service Times (select the days and enter the times for each of your church services throughout the week)
* Google Analytics (enter your ID to easily integrate Google Analytics to your site)

### Homepage Slider
Access this tab to upload and edit as many images that you want to rotate on the homepage as you would like.

### Header
This theme supports the built-in WordPress header feature (under Appearance > Header) that allows you to upload a custom logo that displays at the top of the site. By default, your site's name will be displayed if no image is uploaded.

This bad boy controls the rotating images on the theme's homepage. Upload an image to your Media Library and paste the URL to it in the Homepage Slider to this tab. You can add as many images and URLs as you like and customize the transition animation and speed. 

### Header
This theme supports the built-in WordPress header feature (under Appearance > Header) that allows you to upload a custom logo that displays at the top of the site. By default, your site's name will be displayed if no image is uploaded.

## A Note on Plugins

As previously mentioned, this theme includes a few plugins that are integral to some key features on the site. These are noted below. To learn more about creating and managing content with each plugin, please refer to its website.

* [Contact Form 7](http://contactform7.com/)
* [Events Manager](http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/events-manager/)

In addition, this theme includes two custom plugins:

* Hero Content Slider (previously mentioned above)
* Foursquare Twitter Widget (a simple widget to display tweets from the sidebar)

## Shortcodes
If you haven't heard of these before, you're going to love them. These snippets of text are like shortcuts for adding neat little treats on your site and this theme comes packed with shortcodes for everything from buttons and columns to videos and PayPal payments. There's simply to many to note here, so head on over to [the demo site](http://foursquare.bethouawesome.com/shortcodes) to see them in action.

## Using LESS
The Foursquare WordPress Theme is made with LESS, a dynamic stylesheet language that makes writing CSS fun and ridiculously easy. Want to have at it? All the files are included here, so go for it. Remember, this theme is based off [Twitter Bootstrap](http://twitter.github.com/bootstrap/) which is built with LESS at its core, but you can overwrite those styles using the include foursquare.less file.

Not into CSS preprocessors? All the CSS files are included as well, so you're covered as well! Or, simply edit the style.css file to override any the default theme styles.

## Credits

* Bootstrap - [Twitter](http://twitter.github.com/bootstrap/)
* Homepage Slider - Based on [Anthony Ferguson's](http://www.fergusweb.net/software/flexslider/) rendition of [Flexslider](http://flex.madebymufffin.com/)
* Modernizr - [modernizr.com](http://modernizr.com)
* RefTagger - [Logos](http://www.logos.com/reftagger)
* TGM-Plugin-Activation Function - [Thomas Griffin](https://github.com/thomasgriffin/TGM-Plugin-Activation)

## Copyright & License
Copyright 2012 The Foursquare Church

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this work except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License in the LICENSE file, or at:

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0]http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.

Commit message:

Included known issues section in readme.

README.markdown, after:

# Foursquare WordPress Theme

*Please note this is in beta release and is still baking. More updates to come.*

This is a WordPress theme built by The Foursquare Church for local Foursquare churches to provide them with an out-of-the-box solution for creating a website. 

Special hat tip to the team at Twitter for creating [Bootstrap](http://twitter.github.com/bootstrap), a framework this theme relies on for its functionality. 

Demo: http://foursquare.bethouawesome.com

## Installation & Basic Setup

This theme requires WordPress 3.0 or above. If you're new to WordPress it's pretty awesome, but does require little technical know-how. [Visit the WordPress website](http://codex.wordpress.org/Installing_WordPress) for instructions on how to get it up and running.

This repository includes all the theme files necessary to hit the ground running. To install, simply download the latest release and upload the ZIP file directly to your /wp-content/themes folder and select the theme from your WordPress dashboard (under Appearance > Themes). 

## Features

### Responsive design
This theme is completely responsive, using a wide range of resolutions to ensure your site is optimized for most devices, from mobile to desktop.

### Sermon management
Create sermon posts, group them into series and include related media like video, audio and notes.

### Staff profiles
Give everyone on your staff a personal profile page with contact details, including links to their social networks.

### Service times
List all your church services for easy display on the homepage.

### Bible references
This theme integrates Logos Bible Software's database of scripture, meaning any verse mentioned in a page or post will automatically include a tooltip of the full text with a link to the full version for easy citations. 

### Homepage slider
Spotlight anything on the homepage with an unlimited number of slides.

### Custom backgrounds
Choose from several textures to give your design a little extra oomph.

### Columns
Give any page a custom layout with these simple [shortcodes](http://codex.wordpress.org/Shortcode) that allow you to divide your content into as many as six columns.

### PayPal integration
Use a simple shortcode to insert a donate button anywhere on the site.

### Shortcodes galore
Add buttons, tables, alerts, YouTube clips and Google Maps using this incredibly handy snippets of re-useable code.

### Twitter integration
Display a list of your latest tweets to the sidebar of any page just by adding your Twitter handle.

### Prepackaged Plugins
Includes popular plugins Contact Form 7 and Events Manager for easy contact forms and calendar management, respectively. 

### Built on LESS
Pure vanilla CSS is nice, but if you're into preprocessors, we've packaged in [all the LESS files](http://lesscss.org/) with included variables, nesting, operations and mixins to make your development a little faster and more fun. 

## Installation & Basic Setup

Clone the git repo - `git@github.com:foursquarechurch/Foursquare-WordPress-Theme.git` - or [download the latest release](http://www.foursquare.org/wptheme).

This theme requires WordPress 3.0 or above. [Visit the WordPress website](http://codex.wordpress.org/Installing_WordPress) for instructions on how to run WordPress if you are just getting started.

This repository includes all the theme files necessary to hit the ground running, assuming you are already set up on WordPress. To install, simply download the latest release and upload the ZIP file directly to your /wp-content/themes folder and select the theme from your WordPress dashboard (under Appearance > Themes). 

Please note that this theme relies on a few plugins for certain features to work properly and comes bundled with the files you need. You will be prompted to activate the plugins once the theme has been activated.

## Known Issues

* Calendar header: In Calendar View, the navigation form that sits on top of the Calendar page becomes misaligned when no upcoming events are published in a given month. This is due to a bug with The Events Calendar plugin, which has been noted with the developer and will be worked into a future release of the plugin. In the meantime, the simple fix is to default the calendar view to List under Settings > The Event Calendar. Otherwise, there must be at least one event published for each month. 

## Customizing the Appearance

This theme allows you to adjust the design and choose from several settings to tailor it to your needs. Log into your WordPress dashboard to customize your settings.

Yes, it's true that this theme looks pretty awesome out of the box, but there are a few things you will want to customize to meet your needs.

### Foursquare Theme Options  
Navigate to this tab to customize the following settings:

* Background (choose from a variety of different textures)
* Google Map (the map that is displayed on the homepage)
* Service Times (select the days and enter the times for each of your church services throughout the week)
* Google Analytics (enter your ID to easily integrate Google Analytics to your site)

### Homepage Slider
Access this tab to upload and edit as many images that you want to rotate on the homepage as you would like. This bad boy controls the rotating images on the theme's homepage. Upload an image to your Media Library and paste the URL to it in the Homepage Slider to this tab. You can add as many images and URLs as you like and customize the transition animation and speed. 

### Header
This theme supports the built-in WordPress header feature (under Appearance > Header) that allows you to upload a custom logo that displays at the top of the site. By default, your site's name will be displayed if no image is uploaded.

## A Note on Plugins

As previously mentioned, this theme includes a few plugins that are integral to some key features on the site. These are noted below. To learn more about creating and managing content with each plugin, please refer to its website.

* [Contact Form 7](http://contactform7.com/)
* [Events Manager](http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/events-manager/)

In addition, this theme includes two custom plugins:

* Hero Content Slider (previously mentioned above)
* Foursquare Twitter Widget (a simple widget to display tweets from the sidebar)

## Shortcodes
If you haven't heard of these before, you're going to love them. These snippets of text are like shortcuts for adding neat little treats on your site and this theme comes packed with shortcodes for everything from buttons and columns to videos and PayPal payments. There's simply to many to note here, so head on over to [the demo site](http://foursquare.bethouawesome.com/shortcodes) to see them in action.

## Using LESS
The Foursquare WordPress Theme is made with LESS, a dynamic stylesheet language that makes writing CSS fun and ridiculously easy. Want to have at it? All the files are included here, so go for it. Remember, this theme is based off [Twitter Bootstrap](http://twitter.github.com/bootstrap/) which is built with LESS at its core, but you can overwrite those styles using the include foursquare.less file.

Not into CSS preprocessors? All the CSS files are included as well, so you're covered as well! Or, simply edit the style.css file to override any the default theme styles.

## Credits

* Bootstrap - [Twitter](http://twitter.github.com/bootstrap/)
* Homepage Slider - Based on [Anthony Ferguson's](http://www.fergusweb.net/software/flexslider/) rendition of [Flexslider](http://flex.madebymufffin.com/)
* Modernizr - [modernizr.com](http://modernizr.com)
* RefTagger - [Logos](http://www.logos.com/reftagger)
* TGM-Plugin-Activation Function - [Thomas Griffin](https://github.com/thomasgriffin/TGM-Plugin-Activation)

## Copyright & License
Copyright 2012 The Foursquare Church

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this work except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License in the LICENSE file, or at:

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0]http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
